Chat U2A: human operator prompt first, then AI agent answer. Width: 80 columns.

*********** ChatGPT su Jony Ive AI-driven startup, information check ***********

Created: 21h May 2025
Published 21th May 2025
Attachment: none

================================================================================

Apple design guru Jony Ive joins OpenAI in $6.5 billion hardware deal -- which
is the name of Jony Ive Ai' start-up and which kind of devices are involved in?

---

Jony Ive's AI hardware startup is named io. Founded in 2024 by Ive alongside
former Apple colleagues Tang Tan, Evans Hankey, and Scott Cannon, io was
recently acquired by OpenAI in a $6.5 billion all-equity deal, marking OpenAI's
significant expansion into consumer hardware.

[WSJ+12Business_Insider+12AI News+12]

While specific details about the devices are still under wraps, the project
aims to develop a new category of AI-native hardware that offers an alternative
to traditional smartphones. The envisioned devices are expected to integrate
advanced AI functionalities—such as summarizing information, recognizing
objects, and managing complex tasks—into a more ambient and less attention-
demanding experience.

[Quartz+5AI_News+5El_País+5Financial_Express+1AI_News+1]

The first product from this collaboration is anticipated to launch in 2026 .
Jony Ive's design firm, LoveFrom, will continue to lead the creative direction
for both OpenAI and io, ensuring a focus on human-centric design in the
development of these innovative AI devices.

[El_PaísThe_Indian_Express+6AP News+6WSJ+6]

---

Jony Ive's AI Hardware Startup io -- does this staup have a website? Which is
the URL?

---

As of now, io, the AI hardware startup co-founded by Jony Ive, does not appear
to have a public-facing website. The company has operated in stealth mode,
focusing on developing innovative AI-powered devices that aim to redefine user
interaction with technology.

In May 2025, OpenAI announced the acquisition of io in a $6.5 billion all-
equity deal, marking its significant expansion into consumer hardware. The
collaboration between Jony Ive and OpenAI CEO Sam Altman aims to create a new
category of AI-native hardware that offers an alternative to traditional
smartphones.

While specific details about the devices are still under wraps, the envisioned
products are expected to integrate advanced AI functionalities—such as
summarizing information, recognizing objects, and managing complex tasks—into a
more ambient and less attention-demanding experience. The first product from
this collaboration is anticipated to launch in 2026.

Jony Ive's design firm, LoveFrom, will continue to lead the creative direction
for both OpenAI and io, ensuring a focus on human-centric design in the
development of these innovative AI devices.

For the latest updates on io's developments and product announcements, it's
advisable to monitor OpenAI's official channels and press releases.

